A common code _____ I have seen is code that does not
make proper use of abstractions.
Let's look at testing the findPerson method in the PersonService class.
In this example, the PersonService class directly references PersonDao,
which is a concrete implementation.
PersonDao depends upon a database.
This means that now our test cases not only depend upon PersonService,
but both PersonDao and, much worse, the database.
This poses several problems when writing a test.
It will take longer to write a test, as suitable examples need to be found.
The test complexity will increase,
as it must also account for any behavior in PersonDao.
The test will take longer to execute,
as now a network call must be made to the database.
For maintenance concerns, the record our test depends upon may become stale,
or the database our test depends upon could become unavailable.
We could also take this a little further.
Let's imagine we're testing the getPerson method in the PersonController class.
PersonController directly depends upon the concrete
implementation of PersonService, and PersonService,
of course, depends upon a concrete implementation of PersonDao.
And of course PersonDao depends upon a database.
Now our test getPerson not only depends upon PersonController,
the only code we really want to test, but PersonService,
PersonDao, and of course, the database.
This further increases test complexity from the previous example.
It also further increases test maintenance overhead,
as changes to either PersonService, PersonDao,
or most of all, the database, could cause our test to break,
even if PersonController hasn't changed at all.
So how do we solve this problem?
Well, luckily SOLID provides us some guidance.
The open for extension/closed for modification principle states,
the behavior of code can be extended, but extending it shouldn't modify the code.
The Liskov substitution principle states,
substituting a subtype should not change the behavior of client code.
Finally, the dependency inversion principle states,
high-level classes should not depend upon low-level classes.
Both should instead depend upon abstractions.
So again we have PersonService, but now it depends upon the interface PersonDao.
And the concrete class PersonDaoImpl also depends upon PersonDao.
This is how the code would work in prod; however,
if we were running a test,
we can substitute out PersonDaoImpl for MockPersonDao
without modifying PersonService.
We can tell MockPersonDao to behave exactly how we want for a test scenario,
and because we were following the Liskov substitution principle,
we can be confident that our tests more accurately reflect how
the PersonService class would behave in prod.
If we apply these same principles to PersonController,
we see we no longer have the issue of an ever-extending chain of dependencies as we test higher-level classes.